docs/learn/beginner/03-accounts.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Accounts

:::note Synopsis
This document describes the built-in account and public key system of the Cosmos SDK.
:::

:::note Pre-requisite Readings


* [Anatomy of a Cosmos SDK Application](./00-app-anatomy.md)

:::

## Account Definition

In the Cosmos SDK, an _account_ designates a pair of _public key_ `PubKey` and _private key_ `PrivKey`. The `PubKey` can be used to derive different types of `Addresses` (such as account addresses, validator addresses, and consensus addresses), with one unique address generated for each type. These `Addresses` are used to identify various actors in the application. `Addresses` are also associated with [`message`s](../../build/building-modules/02-messages-and-queries.md#messages) to identify the sender of the `message`. The `PrivKey` is used to generate [digital signatures](#keys-accounts-addresses-and-signatures) to prove that an `Address` associated with the `PrivKey` approved of a given `message`.

For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). The BIP32 allows users to create an HD wallet (as specified in [BIP44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki)) - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. A single seed can derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

```mermaid
graph BT
    A0A[Address 0] --> A0[Account 0]
    A0PK[Public key 0] --> A0A[Address 0]
    A0SK[Private key 0] --> A0PK[Public key 0]
    A1A[Address 1] --> A1[Account 1]
    A1PK[Public key 1] --> A1A[Address 1]
    A1SK[Private key 1] --> A1PK[Public key 1]
    A2A[Address 2] --> A2[Account 2]
    A2PK[Public key 2] --> A2A[Address 2]
    A2SK[Private key 2] --> A2PK[Public key 2]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A0SK[Private key 0]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A1SK[Private key 1]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A2SK[Private key 2]
    Mnemonic["Mnemonic (Seed)"] --> MasterPK[Master PrivKey]
```

In the Cosmos SDK, keys are stored and managed by using an object called a [`Keyring`](#keyring).

## Keys, accounts, addresses, and signatures

The principal way of authenticating a user is done using [digital signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature). Users sign transactions using their own private key. Signature verification is done with the associated public key. For on-chain signature verification purposes, we store the public key in an `Account` object (alongside other data required for a proper transaction validation).

In the node, all data is stored using Protocol Buffers serialization.

The Cosmos SDK supports the following digital key schemes for creating digital signatures:

* `secp256k1`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256k1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/secp256k1/secp256k1.go).
* `secp256r1`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256r1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/secp256r1/pubkey.go),
* `tm-ed25519`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK `crypto/keys/ed25519` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/ed25519/ed25519.go). This scheme is supported only for the consensus validation.

|              | Address length in bytes | Public key length in bytes | Used for transaction authentication | Used for consensus (cometbft) |
| :----------: | :---------------------: | :------------------------: | :---------------------------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `secp256k1`  |           20            |             33             |                 yes                 |               no                |
| `secp256r1`  |           32            |             33             |                 yes                 |               no                |
| `tm-ed25519` |     -- not used --      |             32             |                 no                  |               yes               |

## Addresses

`Addresses` and `PubKey`s are both public information that identifies actors in the application. `Account` is used to store authentication information. The basic account implementation is provided by a `BaseAccount` object.

Each account is identified using an `Address` which is a sequence of bytes derived from a public key. In the Cosmos SDK, we define 3 types of addresses that specify a context where an account is used:

* `AccAddress` identifies users (the sender of a `message`).
* `ValAddress` identifies validator operators.
* `ConsAddress` identifies validator nodes that are participating in consensus. Validator nodes are derived using the **`ed25519`** curve.

These types implement the `Address` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/types/address.go#L145-L155
```

Address construction algorithm is defined in [ADR-28](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md).
Here is the standard way to obtain an account address from a `pub` public key:

```go
sdk.AccAddress(pub.Address().Bytes())
```

Of note, the `Marshal()` and `Bytes()` method both return the same raw `[]byte` form of the address. `Marshal()` is required for Protobuf compatibility.

For user interaction, addresses are formatted using [Bech32](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bech32). This formatting is handled by an address codec. The Bech32 format is the only supported format for interacting with a blockchain. The Bech32 human-readable part (Bech32 prefix) is used to denote an address type. The address codec is responsible for encoding and decoding addresses between their binary representation and the Bech32 string format. Here's an example of how the address codec formats addresses:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/codec/address/bech32_codec.go#L95-L111
```

|                    | Address Bech32 Prefix |
| ------------------ | --------------------- |
| Accounts           | cosmos                |
| Validator Operator | cosmosvaloper         |
| Consensus Nodes    | cosmosvalcons         |

### Public Keys

Public keys in Cosmos SDK are defined by `cryptotypes.PubKey` interface. Since public keys are saved in a store, the `cryptotypes.PubKey` extends the `proto.Message` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/types/types.go#L8-L17
```

A compressed format is used for `secp256k1` and `secp256r1` serialization.

* The first byte is a `0x02` byte if the `y`-coordinate is the lexicographically largest of the two associated with the `x`-coordinate.
* Otherwise the first byte is a `0x03`.

This prefix is followed by the `x`-coordinate.

Public Keys are not used to reference accounts (or users) and in general are not used when composing transaction messages (with a few exceptions: `MsgCreateValidator`, `Validator` and `Multisig` messages).
For user interactions, `PubKey` is formatted using Protobufs JSON ([ProtoMarshalJSON](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.1/codec/json.go#L14-L34) function). Example:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/client/keys/output.go#L24-L47
```

## Keyring

A `Keyring` is an object that stores and manages accounts. In the Cosmos SDK, a `Keyring` implementation follows the `Keyring` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L57-L109
```

The default implementation of `Keyring` comes from the third-party [`99designs/keyring`](https://github.com/99designs/keyring) library.

A few notes on the `Keyring` methods:

* `Sign(uid string, msg []byte) ([]byte, types.PubKey, error)` strictly deals with the signature of the `msg` bytes. You must prepare and encode the transaction into a canonical `[]byte` form. Because protobuf is not deterministic, it has been decided in [ADR-020](../../architecture/adr-020-protobuf-transaction-encoding.md) that the canonical `payload` to sign is the `SignDoc` struct, deterministically encoded using [ADR-027](../../architecture/adr-027-deterministic-protobuf-serialization.md). Note that signature verification is not implemented in the Cosmos SDK by default, it is deferred to the [`anteHandler`](../advanced/00-baseapp.md#antehandler).

```protobuf reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/proto/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/tx.proto#L50-L67
```

* `NewAccount(uid, mnemonic, bip39Passphrase, hdPath string, algo SignatureAlgo) (*Record, error)` creates a new account based on the [`bip44 path`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) and persists it on selected backend. The `PrivKey` is **never stored unencrypted**, instead it is [encrypted with a passphrase](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.1/crypto/armor.go) before being persisted. In the context of this method, the key type and sequence number refers to the segment of the BIP44 derivation path (for example, `0`, `1`, `2`, ...) that is used to derive a private and a public key from the mnemonic. Using the same mnemonic and derivation path, the same `PrivKey`, `PubKey` and `Address` is generated. The following keys are supported by the keyring:

  * `secp256k1`
  * `ed25519`

* `ExportPrivKeyArmor(uid, encryptPassphrase string) (armor string, err error)` exports a private key in ASCII-armored encrypted format using the given passphrase. You can then either import the private key again into the keyring using the `ImportPrivKey(uid, armor, passphrase string)` function or decrypt it into a raw private key using the `UnarmorDecryptPrivKey(armorStr string, passphrase string)` function.

### Create New Key Type

To create a new key type for use in the keyring, the `keyring.SignatureAlgo` interface must be fulfilled.

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/signing_algorithms.go#L11-L16
```

The interface consists in three methods where `Name()` returns the name of the algorithm as a `hd.PubKeyType` and `Derive()` and `Generate()` must return the following functions respectively:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/hd/algo.go#L32-L35
```

Once the `keyring.SignatureAlgo` has been implemented it must be added to the [list of supported algos](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L209) of the keyring. You can add your new algo to the list by using the [`Option` function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring_other.go#L17).

For simplicity the implementation of a new key type should be done inside the `crypto/hd` package.
There is an example of a working `secp256k1` implementation in [algo.go](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/hd/algo.go#L42-L79).


#### Implementing secp256r1 algo

Here is an example of how secp256r1 could be implemented.

First a new function to create a private key from a secret number is needed in the secp256r1 package. This function could look like this:

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys/secp256r1/privkey.go

// NewPrivKeyFromSecret creates a private key derived for the secret number
// represented in big-endian. The `secret` must be a valid ECDSA field element.
func NewPrivKeyFromSecret(secret []byte) (*PrivKey, error) {
	var d = new(big.Int).SetBytes(secret)
	if d.Cmp(secp256r1.Params().N) >= 1 {
		return nil, errorsmod.Wrap(errors.ErrInvalidRequest, "secret not in the curve base field")
	}
	sk := new(ecdsa.PrivKey)
	return &PrivKey{&ecdsaSK{*sk}}, nil
}
```

After that `secp256r1Algo` can be implemented.

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/hd/secp256r1Algo.go

package hd

import (
	"github.com/cosmos/go-bip39"
	
	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys/secp256r1"
	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/types"
)

// Secp256r1Type uses the secp256r1 ECDSA parameters.
const Secp256r1Type = PubKeyType("secp256r1")

var Secp256r1 = secp256r1Algo{}

type secp256r1Algo struct{}

func (s secp256r1Algo) Name() PubKeyType {
	return Secp256r1Type
}

// Derive derives and returns the secp256r1 private key for the given seed and HD path.
func (s secp256r1Algo) Derive() DeriveFn {
	return func(mnemonic string, bip39Passphrase, hdPath string) ([]byte, error) {
		seed, err := bip39.NewSeedWithErrorChecking(mnemonic, bip39Passphrase)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, err
		}

		masterPriv, ch := ComputeMastersFromSeed(seed)
		if len(hdPath) == 0 {
			return masterPriv[:], nil
		}
		derivedKey, err := DerivePrivateKeyForPath(masterPriv, ch, hdPath)

		return derivedKey, err
	}
}

// Generate generates a secp256r1 private key from the given bytes.
func (s secp256r1Algo) Generate() GenerateFn {
	return func(bz []byte) types.PrivKey {
		key, err := secp256r1.NewPrivKeyFromSecret(bz)
		if err != nil {
			panic(err)
		}
		return key
	}
}
```

Finally, the algo must be added to the list of [supported algos](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L209) by the keyring.

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/keyring/keyring.go

func setSupportedAlgos(algos SigningAlgoList) Option {
	return func(options *Options) {
		options.SupportedAlgos = algos
	}
}

k, err := New("", "", "", userInput, cdc, setSupportedAlgos(SigningAlgoList{hd.Secp256k1, hd.Secp256r1}))

```

Hereafter, to create new keys using your algo, you must specify it with the flag `--algo` :

`simd keys add myKey --algo secp256r1`

Commit message:

feat(docs): move docs to accounts section

docs/learn/beginner/03-accounts.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Accounts

:::note Synopsis
This document describes the built-in account and public key system of the Cosmos SDK.
:::

:::note Pre-requisite Readings


* [Anatomy of a Cosmos SDK Application](./00-app-anatomy.md)

:::

## Account Definition

In the Cosmos SDK, an _account_ designates a pair of _public key_ `PubKey` and _private key_ `PrivKey`. The `PubKey` can be used to derive different types of `Addresses` (such as account addresses, validator addresses, and consensus addresses), with one unique address generated for each type. These `Addresses` are used to identify various actors in the application. `Addresses` are also associated with [`message`s](../../build/building-modules/02-messages-and-queries.md#messages) to identify the sender of the `message`. The `PrivKey` is used to generate [digital signatures](#keys-accounts-addresses-and-signatures) to prove that an `Address` associated with the `PrivKey` approved of a given `message`.

For HD key derivation the Cosmos SDK uses a standard called [BIP32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki). The BIP32 allows users to create an HD wallet (as specified in [BIP44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki)) - a set of accounts derived from an initial secret seed. A seed is usually created from a 12- or 24-word mnemonic. A single seed can derive any number of `PrivKey`s using a one-way cryptographic function. Then, a `PubKey` can be derived from the `PrivKey`. Naturally, the mnemonic is the most sensitive information, as private keys can always be re-generated if the mnemonic is preserved.

```mermaid
graph BT
    A0A[Address 0] --> A0[Account 0]
    A0PK[Public key 0] --> A0A[Address 0]
    A0SK[Private key 0] --> A0PK[Public key 0]
    A1A[Address 1] --> A1[Account 1]
    A1PK[Public key 1] --> A1A[Address 1]
    A1SK[Private key 1] --> A1PK[Public key 1]
    A2A[Address 2] --> A2[Account 2]
    A2PK[Public key 2] --> A2A[Address 2]
    A2SK[Private key 2] --> A2PK[Public key 2]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A0SK[Private key 0]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A1SK[Private key 1]
    MasterPK[Master PrivKey] --> A2SK[Private key 2]
    Mnemonic["Mnemonic (Seed)"] --> MasterPK[Master PrivKey]
```

In the Cosmos SDK, keys are stored and managed by using an object called a [`Keyring`](#keyring).

## Keys, accounts, addresses, and signatures

The principal way of authenticating a user is done using [digital signatures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature). Users sign transactions using their own private key. Signature verification is done with the associated public key. For on-chain signature verification purposes, we store the public key in an `Account` object (alongside other data required for a proper transaction validation).

In the node, all data is stored using Protocol Buffers serialization.

The Cosmos SDK supports the following digital key schemes for creating digital signatures:

* `secp256k1`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256k1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/secp256k1/secp256k1.go).
* `secp256r1`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK's `crypto/keys/secp256r1` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/secp256r1/pubkey.go),
* `tm-ed25519`, as implemented in the [Cosmos SDK `crypto/keys/ed25519` package](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keys/ed25519/ed25519.go). This scheme is supported only for the consensus validation.

|              | Address length in bytes | Public key length in bytes | Used for transaction authentication | Used for consensus (cometbft) |
| :----------: | :---------------------: | :------------------------: | :---------------------------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `secp256k1`  |           20            |             33             |                 yes                 |               no                |
| `secp256r1`  |           32            |             33             |                 yes                 |               no                |
| `tm-ed25519` |     -- not used --      |             32             |                 no                  |               yes               |

## Addresses

`Addresses` and `PubKey`s are both public information that identifies actors in the application. `Account` is used to store authentication information. The basic account implementation is provided by a `BaseAccount` object.

Each account is identified using an `Address` which is a sequence of bytes derived from a public key. In the Cosmos SDK, we define 3 types of addresses that specify a context where an account is used:

* `AccAddress` identifies users (the sender of a `message`).
* `ValAddress` identifies validator operators.
* `ConsAddress` identifies validator nodes that are participating in consensus. Validator nodes are derived using the **`ed25519`** curve.

These types implement the `Address` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/types/address.go#L145-L155
```

Address construction algorithm is defined in [ADR-28](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md).
Here is the standard way to obtain an account address from a `pub` public key:

```go
sdk.AccAddress(pub.Address().Bytes())
```

Of note, the `Marshal()` and `Bytes()` method both return the same raw `[]byte` form of the address. `Marshal()` is required for Protobuf compatibility.

For user interaction, addresses are formatted using [Bech32](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bech32). This formatting is handled by an address codec. The Bech32 format is the only supported format for interacting with a blockchain. The Bech32 human-readable part (Bech32 prefix) is used to denote an address type. The address codec is responsible for encoding and decoding addresses between their binary representation and the Bech32 string format. Here's an example of how the address codec formats addresses:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/codec/address/bech32_codec.go#L95-L111
```

|                    | Address Bech32 Prefix |
| ------------------ | --------------------- |
| Accounts           | cosmos                |
| Validator Operator | cosmosvaloper         |
| Consensus Nodes    | cosmosvalcons         |


### Module Accounts

#### Address Generation

Module account addresses are generated deterministically from the module name, as defined in [ADR-028](../../architecture/adr-028-public-key-addresses.md) 

Definition of account permissions is done during the app initialization.

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/3a03804c148d0da8d6df1ad839b08c50f6896fa1/simapp/app.go#L130-L141
```

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/3a03804c148d0da8d6df1ad839b08c50f6896fa1/simapp/app.go#L328
```

### Public Keys

Public keys in Cosmos SDK are defined by `cryptotypes.PubKey` interface. Since public keys are saved in a store, the `cryptotypes.PubKey` extends the `proto.Message` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/types/types.go#L8-L17
```

A compressed format is used for `secp256k1` and `secp256r1` serialization.

* The first byte is a `0x02` byte if the `y`-coordinate is the lexicographically largest of the two associated with the `x`-coordinate.
* Otherwise the first byte is a `0x03`.

This prefix is followed by the `x`-coordinate.

Public Keys are not used to reference accounts (or users) and in general are not used when composing transaction messages (with a few exceptions: `MsgCreateValidator`, `Validator` and `Multisig` messages).
For user interactions, `PubKey` is formatted using Protobufs JSON ([ProtoMarshalJSON](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.1/codec/json.go#L14-L34) function). Example:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/client/keys/output.go#L24-L47
```

## Keyring

A `Keyring` is an object that stores and manages accounts. In the Cosmos SDK, a `Keyring` implementation follows the `Keyring` interface:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L57-L109
```

The default implementation of `Keyring` comes from the third-party [`99designs/keyring`](https://github.com/99designs/keyring) library.

A few notes on the `Keyring` methods:

* `Sign(uid string, msg []byte) ([]byte, types.PubKey, error)` strictly deals with the signature of the `msg` bytes. You must prepare and encode the transaction into a canonical `[]byte` form. Because protobuf is not deterministic, it has been decided in [ADR-020](../../architecture/adr-020-protobuf-transaction-encoding.md) that the canonical `payload` to sign is the `SignDoc` struct, deterministically encoded using [ADR-027](../../architecture/adr-027-deterministic-protobuf-serialization.md). Note that signature verification is not implemented in the Cosmos SDK by default, it is deferred to the [`anteHandler`](../advanced/00-baseapp.md#antehandler).

```protobuf reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/proto/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/tx.proto#L50-L67
```

* `NewAccount(uid, mnemonic, bip39Passphrase, hdPath string, algo SignatureAlgo) (*Record, error)` creates a new account based on the [`bip44 path`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki) and persists it on selected backend. The `PrivKey` is **never stored unencrypted**, instead it is [encrypted with a passphrase](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.1/crypto/armor.go) before being persisted. In the context of this method, the key type and sequence number refers to the segment of the BIP44 derivation path (for example, `0`, `1`, `2`, ...) that is used to derive a private and a public key from the mnemonic. Using the same mnemonic and derivation path, the same `PrivKey`, `PubKey` and `Address` is generated. The following keys are supported by the keyring:

  * `secp256k1`
  * `ed25519`

* `ExportPrivKeyArmor(uid, encryptPassphrase string) (armor string, err error)` exports a private key in ASCII-armored encrypted format using the given passphrase. You can then either import the private key again into the keyring using the `ImportPrivKey(uid, armor, passphrase string)` function or decrypt it into a raw private key using the `UnarmorDecryptPrivKey(armorStr string, passphrase string)` function.

### Create New Key Type

To create a new key type for use in the keyring, the `keyring.SignatureAlgo` interface must be fulfilled.

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/signing_algorithms.go#L11-L16
```

The interface consists in three methods where `Name()` returns the name of the algorithm as a `hd.PubKeyType` and `Derive()` and `Generate()` must return the following functions respectively:

```go reference
https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/hd/algo.go#L32-L35
```

Once the `keyring.SignatureAlgo` has been implemented it must be added to the [list of supported algos](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L209) of the keyring. You can add your new algo to the list by using the [`Option` function](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring_other.go#L17).

For simplicity the implementation of a new key type should be done inside the `crypto/hd` package.
There is an example of a working `secp256k1` implementation in [algo.go](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/hd/algo.go#L42-L79).


#### Implementing secp256r1 algo

Here is an example of how secp256r1 could be implemented.

First a new function to create a private key from a secret number is needed in the secp256r1 package. This function could look like this:

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys/secp256r1/privkey.go

// NewPrivKeyFromSecret creates a private key derived for the secret number
// represented in big-endian. The `secret` must be a valid ECDSA field element.
func NewPrivKeyFromSecret(secret []byte) (*PrivKey, error) {
	var d = new(big.Int).SetBytes(secret)
	if d.Cmp(secp256r1.Params().N) >= 1 {
		return nil, errorsmod.Wrap(errors.ErrInvalidRequest, "secret not in the curve base field")
	}
	sk := new(ecdsa.PrivKey)
	return &PrivKey{&ecdsaSK{*sk}}, nil
}
```

After that `secp256r1Algo` can be implemented.

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/hd/secp256r1Algo.go

package hd

import (
	"github.com/cosmos/go-bip39"
	
	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/keys/secp256r1"
	"github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/crypto/types"
)

// Secp256r1Type uses the secp256r1 ECDSA parameters.
const Secp256r1Type = PubKeyType("secp256r1")

var Secp256r1 = secp256r1Algo{}

type secp256r1Algo struct{}

func (s secp256r1Algo) Name() PubKeyType {
	return Secp256r1Type
}

// Derive derives and returns the secp256r1 private key for the given seed and HD path.
func (s secp256r1Algo) Derive() DeriveFn {
	return func(mnemonic string, bip39Passphrase, hdPath string) ([]byte, error) {
		seed, err := bip39.NewSeedWithErrorChecking(mnemonic, bip39Passphrase)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, err
		}

		masterPriv, ch := ComputeMastersFromSeed(seed)
		if len(hdPath) == 0 {
			return masterPriv[:], nil
		}
		derivedKey, err := DerivePrivateKeyForPath(masterPriv, ch, hdPath)

		return derivedKey, err
	}
}

// Generate generates a secp256r1 private key from the given bytes.
func (s secp256r1Algo) Generate() GenerateFn {
	return func(bz []byte) types.PrivKey {
		key, err := secp256r1.NewPrivKeyFromSecret(bz)
		if err != nil {
			panic(err)
		}
		return key
	}
}
```

Finally, the algo must be added to the list of [supported algos](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/v0.52.0-beta.2/crypto/keyring/keyring.go#L209) by the keyring.

```go
// cosmos-sdk/crypto/keyring/keyring.go

func setSupportedAlgos(algos SigningAlgoList) Option {
	return func(options *Options) {
		options.SupportedAlgos = algos
	}
}

k, err := New("", "", "", userInput, cdc, setSupportedAlgos(SigningAlgoList{hd.Secp256k1, hd.Secp256r1}))

```

Hereafter, to create new keys using your algo, you must specify it with the flag `--algo` :

`simd keys add myKey --algo secp256r1`
