# ADR 033: Protobuf Module Object Capabilities

## Changelog

- 2020-10-05: Initial Draft

## Status

Proposed

## Abstract

> "If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the ADR.
> A short (~200 word) description of the issue being addressed.


## Context

In the current Cosmos SDK documentation on the [Object-Capability Model](../docs/core/ocap.md), it is state that:

> We assume that a thriving ecosystem of Cosmos-SDK modules that are easy to compose into a blockchain application will contain faulty or malicious modules.

There is currently not a thriving ecosystem of Cosmos SDK modules. We hypothesize that this is in part due to:
1. lack of a stable v1.0 Cosmos SDK to build modules off of. Module interfaces are changing, sometimes dramatically, from
point release to point release, often for good reasons, but this does not create a stable foundation to build on.
2. lack of a properly implemented object capability or even object-oriented encapsulation system.

### `x/bank` Case Study

We use `x/bank as a case study` of this.

Currently the `x/bank` keeper gives pretty much unrestricted access to any module which references it. For instance, the
`SetBalance` method allows the caller to set the balance of any account to anything, bypassing even proper tracking of supply.

There appears to have been some later attempts to implement some semblance of Ocaps using module-level minting, staking
and burning permissions. These permissions allow a module to mint, burn or delegate tokens with reference to the module’s
own account. These permissions are actually stored as a `[]string` array on the `ModuleAccount` type in state.

However, these permissions don’t really do much. They control what modules can be referenced in the `MintCoins`,
`BurnCoins` and `DelegateCoins***` methods, but for one there is no unique object capability token that controls access
- just a simple string. So the `x/upgrade` module could mint tokens for the `x/staking` module simple by calling
`MintCoins(“staking”)`. Furthermore, all modules which have access to these keeper methods, also have access to
`SetBalance` negating any level of ocaps or even basic object-oriented encapsulation.

## Decision

Starting from the work in [ADR 31](Protobuf Msg Services), we introduce the following inter-module communication system
to replace the existing keeper paradigm. These two pieces together are intended to form the basis of a Cosmos SDK v1.0
that provides the necessary stability and encapsulation guarantees that allow a thriving module ecosystem to emerge.

### New "Keeper" Paradigm

In [ADR 021](./adr-021-protobuf-query-encoding.md), a mechanism for using protobuf service definitions to define queriers
was introduced and in [ADR 31](), protobuf service definition representation of `Msg`s was added.
Protobuf service definitions generate two golang interfaces representing the client and server sides of a service plus
some helper code. Ex:

```go
package bank

type MsgClient interface {
	Send(context.Context, *MsgSend, opts ...grpc.CallOption) (*MsgSendResponse, error)
}

type MsgServer interface {
	Send(context.Context, *MsgSend) (*MsgSendResponse, error)
}
```

[ADR 021](./adr-021-protobuf-query-encoding.md) and [ADR 31]() specifies how modules can implement the generated `QueryServer`
and `MsgServer` interfaces as replacements for the legacy queriers and `Msg` handlers respectively.

In this ADR we explain how modules can make queries and send `Msg`s to other modules using the generated `QueryClient`
and `MsgClient` interfaces and propose this mechanism as a replacement for the existing `Keeper` paradigm.

Using this `QueryClient`/`MsgClient` approach has the following key benefits over keepers:
1. Protobuf types are checked for breaking changes using [buf](https://buf.build/docs/breaking-overview) and because of
the way protobuf is designed this will give us strong backwards compatibility guarantees while allowing for forward
evolution.
2. The separation between the client and server interfaces will allow us to insert permission checking code in between
the two which checks if one module is authorized to send the specified `Msg` to the other module providing a proper
object capability system.

This mechanism has the added benefits of:
- reducing boilerplate through code generation, and
- allowing for modules in other languages either through a VM like CosmWasm or sub-processes using gRPC 

### Inter-module Communication

In order for code to use the `Client` interfaces generated by the protobuf compiler, a `grpc.ClientConn` implementation
is needed. We introduce a new type, `ModuleKey`, to serve this role which we can conceptualize as the "private key"
corresponding to a module account.

Whereas external clients use their private key to sign transactions containing `Msg`s where they are listed as signers,
modules use their `ModuleKey` to send `Msg`s where they are listed as signers to other modules. For example, modules
could use their `ModuleKey` to "sign" a `/cosmos.bank.Msg/Send` transaction to send coins from the module to another
account.

`QueryClient`s could also be made with `ModuleKey`s, except that authentication isn't required.

Ex:
```go
package foo

func (fooMsgServer *MsgServer) Bar(ctx context.Context, req *MsgBar) (*MsgBarResponse, error) {
  bankQueryClient := bank.NewQueryClient(fooMsgServer.moduleKey)
  balance, err := bankQueryClient.Balance(&bank.QueryBalanceRequest{Address: fooMsgServer.moduleKey.Address(), Denom: "foo"})
  
  ...

  bankMsgClient := bank.NewMsgClient(fooMsgServer.moduleKey)
  res, err := bankMsgClient.Balance(ctx, &bank.MsgSend{FromAddress: fooMsgServer.moduleKey.Address(), ...})

  ...
}
```

### `ModuleKey`s and `ModuleID`s

A `ModuleKey` can be thought of as a "private key" for a module account and a `ModuleID` can be thought of as the
corresponding "public key". From [ADR 028](), modules can have both a root module account and any number of sub-accounts
or derived accounts that can be used for different pools (ex. staking pools) or managed accounts (ex. group
accounts). We can also think of module sub-accounts as similar to derived keys - there is a root key and then some
derivation path. `ModuleID` is a simple struct which contains the module name and optional "derivation" path,
and forms its address based on the `AddressHash` method from [ADR 028]():

```go
type ModuleID struct {
  ModuleName string
  Path []byte
}

func (key ModuleID) Address() []byte {
  return AddressHash(key.ModuleName, key.Path)
}
```

In addition to being able to generate a `ModuleID` and address, a `ModuleKey` contains a special function closure called
the `Invoker` which is the key to safe inter-module access. This function closure corresponds to the `Invoke` method in
the `grpc.ClientConn` interface and under the hood is able to route messages to the approach `Msg` and `Query` handlers performing
appropriate security checks on `Msg`s. This allows for even safer inter-module access than keeper's whose private member
variables could be manipulated through reflection. Golang does not support reflection of a function closure's captured
variables and direct manipulation of memory would be needed for a truly malicious module to bypass the `ModuleKey`
security.

The two `ModuleKey` types are `RootModuleKey` and `DerivedModuleKey`:

```go
func Invoker(ctx context.Context, params InvokeParams, method string, args, reply interface{}, opts ...grpc.CallOption) error

type RootModuleKey struct {
  moduleName string
  invoker Invoker
}

type DerivedModuleKey struct {
  moduleName string
  path []byte
  invoker Invoker
}

type InvokeParams struct {
  Caller ModuleID
}
```

A module can get access to a `DerivedModuleKey`, using the `Derive(path []byte)` method on `RootModuleKey` and then
would use this key to authenticate `Msg`s from a sub-account:

```go
package foo

func (fooMsgServer *MsgServer) Bar(ctx context.Context, req *MsgBar) (*MsgBarResponse, error) {
  derivedKey := fooMsgServer.moduleKey.Derive(req.SomePath)
  bankMsgClient := bank.NewMsgClient(derivedKey)
  res, err := bankMsgClient.Balance(ctx, &bank.MsgSend{FromAddress: derivedKey.Address(), ...})
  ...
}
```

In this way, a module can gain permissioned access to a root account and any number of sub-accounts and send
authenticated `Msg`s from these accounts. The `InvokeParams.Caller` parameter is used under the hood to
distinguish between different module accounts, but either way the `Invoker` only allows `Msg`s from either the
root or a derived module account to pass through.

### `AppModule` Wiring and Requirements

In [ADR 031](), the `AppModule.RegisterService(Configurator)` method was introduced. To support inter-module
communication, we extend the `Configurator` interface to pass in the `ModuleKey` and to allow modules to specify
their dependencies on other modules using `RequireServer`:


```go
type Configurator interface {
   QueryServer() grpc.Server
   MsgServer() grpc.Server

   ModuleKey() ModuleKey
   RequireServer(serverInterface interface{})
}
```

The `ModuleKey` is passed to modules in the `RegisterService` method because this is the earliest point at which modules
need it and this 

### Security Considerations

Queries in Cosmos SDK are generally un-permissioned so allowing one module to query another module should not pose
any major security threats assuming basic precautions are taken. The basic precautions identified here are:
- the `sdk.Context` which query methods have access to should not allow writing to the store
- query methods should only be able to make queries against other modules, not send messages
- query methods should not be able to make recursive calls to themselves

We introduce a singleton `grpc.ClientConn` implementation as the var `sdk.ModuleQueryConn` for making inter-module
queries. It would be used like this from within an example `MsgServer` implementation:

Under the hood, a query router will be attached to the provided `context.Context` and `sdk.ModuleQueryConn`
will retrieve that query router for routing queries.

The attached query router will make sure the above security precautions are taken by:
- disabling any ability for `QueryServer` methods to write to the store, 
- disabling the ability for `QueryServer` methods to send `Msg`s to other modules,
- keeping track of the call stack of method calls to disable recursion

#### Module Keys

```go
func Invoker(ctx context.Context, caller ModuleID, method string, args, reply interface{}, opts ...grpc.CallOption) error

type ModuleKey interface {
  grpc.ClientConn
  ID() ModuleID
}

type RootModuleKey struct {
  moduleName string
  invoker Invoker()
}

type DerivedModuleKey struct {
  moduleName string
  path []byte
  msgInvoker Invoker()
}

```

### Inter-Module Communication

```go
func (k keeper) DoSomething(ctx context.Context, req *MsgDoSomething) (*MsgDoSomethingResponse, error) {
  // make a query
  bankQueryClient := bank.NewQueryClient(sdk.ModuleQueryConn)
  res, err := bankQueryClient.Balance(ctx, &QueryBalanceRequest{
    Denom: "foo",
    Address: ModuleKeyToBech32Address(k.moduleKey),
  })
  
  // send a msg
  bankMsgClient := bank.NewMsgClient(k.moduleKey)
  res, err := bankMsgClient.Send(ctx, &MsgSend{
    FromAddress: ModuleKeyToBech32Address(k.moduleKey),
    ToAddress: ...,
    Amount: ...,
  })

  // send a msg from a derived module account
  derivedKey := k.moduleKey.DerivedKey([]byte("some-sub-pool"))
  res, err := bankMsgClient.Send(ctx, &MsgSend{
    FromAddress: ModuleKeyToBech32Address(derivedKey),
    ToAddress: ...,
    Amount: ...,
  })
}
```

### Hooks

```proto
service Hooks {
  rpc AfterValidatorCreated(AfterValidatorCreatedRequest) returns (AfterValidatorCreatedResponse);
}

message AfterValidatorCreatedRequest {
  string validator_address = 1;
}

message AfterValidatorCreatedResponse { }
```


```go
func (k stakingKeeper) CreateValidator(ctx context.Context, req *MsgCreateValidator) (*MsgCreateValidatorResponse, error) {
  ...

  for moduleId := range k.modulesWithHook {
    hookClient := NewHooksClient(moduleId)
    _, _ := hooksClient.AfterValidatorCreated(ctx, &AfterValidatorCreatedRequest {ValidatorAddress: valAddr})
  }
  ...
}
```

### Module Registration and Requirements

```go
type Configurator interface {
  ModuleKey() RootModuleKey

  MsgServer() grpc.Server
  QueryServer() grpc.Server
  HooksServer() grpc.Server

  RequireMsgServer(msgServerInterface interface{})
  RequireQueryServer(queryServerInterface interface{})
}

type Provisioner interface {
  GetAdminMsgClientConn(msgServerInterface interface{}) grpc.ClientConn
  GetPluginClientConn(pluginServerInterface interface{}) func(ModuleID) grpc.ClientConn
}

type Module interface {
  Configure(Configurator)
  Provision(Provisioner)
}

type ModuleManager interface {
  GrantAdminAccess(module ModuleID, msgServerInterface interface{})
  GrantPluginAccess(module ModuleID, pluginServerInterface interface{})
}
```

### Future Work

A separate ADR will address the use cases of unrestricted, "admin" access and inter-module hooks
(as used in `x/staking/keeper/hooks.go`).


## Consequences

> This section describes the resulting context, after applying the decision. All consequences should be listed here, not just the "positive" ones. A particular decision may have positive, negative, and neutral consequences, but all of them affect the team and project in the future.


### Backwards Compatibility

> All ADRs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The ADR must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. ADR submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.


### Positive

{positive consequences}

### Negative

{negative consequences}

### Neutral

{neutral consequences}


## Test Cases [optional]

Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for ADRs that are affecting consensus changes. Other ADRs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.


## References

- {reference link}
