# ADR 008: Decentralized Computer Emergency Response Team (dCERT) Group

## Changelog

- 2019 Jul 31: Initial Draft

## Context

In order to reduce the number of parties involved with handling sensitive
information in an emergency scenario, we propose the creation of a
specialization group named The Decentralized Computer Emergency Response Team
(dCERT).  Initially this group's role is intended to serve as coordinators
between various actors within a blockchain community such as validators,
bug-hunters, and developers.  During a time of crisis, the dCERT group would
aggregate and relay input from a variety of stakeholders to the developers who
are actively devising a patch to the software, this way sensitive information
does not need to be publicly disclosed while some input from the community can
still be gained. 

Additionally, a special privilege is proposed for the dCERT group: the capacity
to "circuit-break" (aka. temporarily disable)  a particular message path. Note
that this privilege should be enabled/disabled globally with a governance
parameter such that this privilege could start disabled and later be enabled
through a parameter change proposal, once a dCERT group has been established. 

In the future it is foreseeable that the community may wish to expand the roles
of dCERT with further responsibilities such as the capacity to "pre-approve" a
security update on behalf of the community prior to a full community
wide vote whereby the sensitive information would be revealed prior to a
vulnerability being patched on the live network.  

## Decision

The dCERT group is proposed to include an implementation of a `SpecializationGroup`
as defined in [ADR 007](./adr-007-specialization-groups.md). This will include the 
implementation of: 
 - continuous voting
 - slashing due to breach of soft contract
 - revoking a member due to breach of soft contract
 - emergency disband of the entire dCERT group (ex. for colluding maliciously) 
 - compensation stipend from the community pool or other means decided by
   governance

This system necessitates the following new parameters: 
 - blockly stipend allowance per dCERT member 
 - maximum number of dCERT members 
 - required staked slashable tokens for each dCERT member 
 - quorum for suspending a particular member 
 - proposal wager for disbanding the dCERT group 
 - stabilization period for dCERT member transition
 - circuit break dCERT privileges enabled 

These parameters are expected to be implemented through the param keeper such 
that governance may change them at any given point. 

### Continuous Voting Electionator

An `Electionator` object is to be implemented as continuous voting and with the
following specifications:
 - All delegation addresses may submit votes at any point which updates their 
   preferred representation on the dCERT group. 
 - Preferred representation may be arbitrarily split between addresses (ex. 50%
   to John, 25% to Sally, 25% to Carol) 
 - In order for a new member to be added to the dCERT group they must 
   send a transaction accepting their admission at which point the validity of
   their admission is to be confirmed. 
   - A sequence number is assigned when a member is added to dCERT group. 
     If a member leaves the dCERT group and then enters back, a new sequence number
     is assigned.  
 - Addresses which control the greatest amount of preferred-representation are
   eligible to join the dCERT group (up the _maximum number of dCERT members_). 
   If the dCERT group is already full and new member is admitted, the existing
   dCERT member with the lowest amount of votes is kicked from the dCERT group.
   - In the split situation where the dCERT group is full but a vying candidate 
     has the same amount of vote as an existing dCERT member, the existing 
     member should maintain its position. 
   - In the split situation where somebody must be kicked out but the two
     addresses with the smallest number of votes have the same number of votes,
     the address with the smallest sequence number maintains its position.  
 - A stabilization period can be optionally included to reduce the
   "flip-flopping" of the dCERT membership tail members. If a stabilization
   period is provided which is greater than 0, when members are kicked due to
   insufficient support, a queue entry is created which documents which member is
   to replace which other member. While this entry is in the queue, no new entries
   to kick that same dCERT member can be made. When the entry matures at the
   duration of the  stabilization period, the new member is instantiated, and old
   member kicked.

### Staking/Slashing

All members of the dCERT group must stake tokens _specifically_ to maintain
eligibility as a dCERT member. These tokens can be staked directly by the vying
dCERT member or out of the good will of a 3rd party (who shall gain no on-chain
benefits for doing so). This staking mechanism should use the existing global
unbonding time of tokens staked for network validator security. A dCERT member
can _only be_ a member if it has the required tokens staked under this
mechanism. If those tokens are unbonded then the dCERT member must be
automatically kicked from the group.  

Slashing of a particular dCERT member due to soft-contract breach should be
performed by governance on a per member basis based on the magnitude of the
breach.  The process flow is anticipated to be that a dCERT member is suspended
by the dCERT group prior to being slashed by governance.  

Membership suspension by the dCERT group takes place through a voting procedure
by the dCERT group members. After this suspension has taken place, a governance
proposal to slash the dCERT member must be submitted, if the proposal is not
approved by the time the rescinding member has completed unbonding their
tokens, then the tokens are no longer staked and unable to be slashed. 

Additionally in the case of an emergency situation of a colluding and malicious
dCERT group, the community needs the capability to disband the entire dCERT
group and likely fully slash them. This could be achieved though a special new
proposal type (implemented as a general governance proposal) which would halt
the functionality of the dCERT group until the proposal was concluded. This
special proposal type would likely need to also have a fairly large wager which
could be slashed if the proposal creator was malicious. The reason a large
wager should be required is because as soon as the proposal is made, the
capability of the dCERT group to halt message routes is put on temporarily
suspended, meaning that a malicious actor who created such a proposal could
then potentially exploit a bug during this period of time, with no dCERT group
capable of shutting down the exploitable message routes. 

### dCERT membership transactions

Active dCERT members 
 - change of the description of the dCERT group
 - circuit break a message route
 - vote to suspend a dCERT member. 

Here circuit-breaking refers to the capability to disable a groups of messages,
This could for instance mean: "disable all staking-delegation messages", or
"disable all distribution messages". This could be accomplished by verifying
that the message route has not been "circuit-broken" at CheckTx time (in
`baseapp/baseapp.go`). 

"unbreaking" a circuit is anticipated only to occur during a hard fork upgrade
meaning that no capability to unbreak a message route on a live chain is
required. 

Note also, that if there was a problem with governance voting (for instance a
capability to vote many times) then governance would be broken and should be
halted with this mechanism, it would be then up to the validator set to
coordinate and hard-fork upgrade to a patched version of the software where
governance is re-enabled (and fixed). If the dCERT group abuses this privilege
they should all be severely slashed.

## Status

> Proposed

## Consequences

### Positive

 - Potential to reduces the number of parties to coordinate with during an emergency 
 - Reduction in possibility of disclosing sensitive information to malicious parties

### Negative

 - Centralization risks

### Neutral

## References
 
  (Specialization Groups ADR)[./adr-007-specialization-groups.md]
