store/v2/storage/README.md, before:

# State Storage (SS)

The `storage` package contains the state storage (SS) implementation. Specifically,
it contains RocksDB, PebbleDB, and SQLite (Btree) backend implementations of the
`VersionedDatabase` interface.

The goal of SS is to provide a modular storage backend, i.e. multiple implementations,
to facilitate storing versioned raw key/value pairs in a fast embedded database,
although an embedded database is not required, i.e. you could use a replicated
RDBMS system.

The responsibility and functions of SS include the following:

* Provide fast and efficient queries for versioned raw key/value pairs
* Provide versioned CRUD operations
* Provide versioned batching functionality
* Provide versioned iteration (forward and reverse) functionality
* Provide pruning functionality

All of the functionality provided by an SS backend should work under a versioned
scheme, i.e. a user should be able to get, store, and iterate over keys for the
latest and historical versions efficiently.

## Backends

### RocksDB

The RocksDB implementation is a CGO-based SS implementation. It fully supports
the `VersionedDatabase` API and is arguably the most efficient implementation. It
also supports versioning out-of-the-box using User-defined Timestamps in
ColumnFamilies (CF). However, it requires the CGO dependency which can complicate
an app’s build process.

### PebbleDB

The PebbleDB implementation is a native Go SS implementation that is primarily an
alternative to RocksDB. Since it does not support CF, results in the fact that we
need to implement versioning (MVCC) ourselves. This comes with added implementation
complexity and potential performance overhead. However, it is a pure Go implementation
and does not require CGO.

### SQLite (Btree)

The SQLite implementation is another CGO-based SS implementation. It fully supports
the `VersionedDatabase` API. The implementation is relatively straightforward and
easy to understand as it’s entirely SQL-based. However, benchmarks show that this
options is least performant, even for reads. This SS backend has a lot of promise,
but needs more benchmarking and potential SQL optimizations, like dedicated tables
for certain aspects of state, e.g. latest state, to be extremely performant.

## Benchmarks

Benchmarks for basic operations on all supported native SS implementations can
be found in `store/storage/storage_bench_test.go`.

At the time of writing, the following benchmarks were performed:

```shell
name                                              time/op
Get/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10             7.41µs ± 0%
Get/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10              6.17µs ± 0%
Get/backend_btree_sqlite-10                       29.1µs ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10   5.73ms ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_btree_sqlite-10            56.9ms ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10  4.07ms ± 0%
Iterate/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10           1.04s ± 0%
Iterate/backend_btree_sqlite-10                    1.59s ± 0%
Iterate/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10          778ms ± 0%
```

## Pruning

Pruning is an implementation and responsibility of the underlying SS backend.
Specifically, the `StorageStore` accepts `store.PruningOption` which defines the
pruning configuration. During `ApplyChangeset`, the `StorageStore` will check if
pruning should occur based on the current height being committed. If so, it will
delegate a `Prune` call on the underlying SS backend, which can be defined specific
to the implementation, e.g. asynchronous or synchronous.


## State Sync

State storage (SS) does not have a direct notion of state sync. Rather, `snapshots.Manager`
is responsible for creating and restoring snapshots of the entire state. The
`snapshots.Manager` has a `StorageSnapshotter` field which is fulfilled by the
`StorageStore` type, specifically it implements the `Restore` method. The `Restore`
method reads off of a provided channel and writes key/value pairs directly to a
batch object which is committed to the underlying SS engine.

## Non-Consensus Data

<!-- TODO -->

## Usage

An SS backend is meant to be used within a broader store implementation, as it
only stores data for direct and historical query purposes. We define a `Database`
interface in the `storage` package which is mean to be represent a `VersionedDatabase`
with only the necessary methods. The `StorageStore` interface is meant to wrap or
accept this `Database` type, e.g. RocksDB.

The `StorageStore` interface is an abstraction or wrapper around the backing SS
engine can be seen as the main entry point to using SS.

Higher up the stack, there should exist a `root.Store` implementation. The `root.Store`
is meant to encapsulate both an SS backend and an SC backend. The SS backend is
defined by this `StorageStore` implementation.

In short, initialize your SS engine of choice and then provide that to `NewStorageStore`
which will further be provided to `root.Store` as the SS backend.

Commit message:

docs(store/v2): Add missing documents (#22118)

store/v2/storage/README.md, after:

# State Storage (SS)

The `storage` package contains the state storage (SS) implementation. Specifically,
it contains RocksDB, PebbleDB, and SQLite (Btree) backend implementations of the
`VersionedDatabase` interface.

The goal of SS is to provide a modular storage backend, i.e. multiple implementations,
to facilitate storing versioned raw key/value pairs in a fast embedded database,
although an embedded database is not required, i.e. you could use a replicated
RDBMS system.

The responsibility and functions of SS include the following:

* Provide fast and efficient queries for versioned raw key/value pairs
* Provide versioned CRUD operations
* Provide versioned batching functionality
* Provide versioned iteration (forward and reverse) functionality
* Provide pruning functionality

All of the functionality provided by an SS backend should work under a versioned
scheme, i.e. a user should be able to get, store, and iterate over keys for the
latest and historical versions efficiently.

## Backends

### RocksDB

The RocksDB implementation is a CGO-based SS implementation. It fully supports
the `VersionedDatabase` API and is arguably the most efficient implementation. It
also supports versioning out-of-the-box using User-defined Timestamps in
ColumnFamilies (CF). However, it requires the CGO dependency which can complicate
an app’s build process.

### PebbleDB

The PebbleDB implementation is a native Go SS implementation that is primarily an
alternative to RocksDB. Since it does not support CF, results in the fact that we
need to implement versioning (MVCC) ourselves. This comes with added implementation
complexity and potential performance overhead. However, it is a pure Go implementation
and does not require CGO.

### SQLite (Btree)

The SQLite implementation is another CGO-based SS implementation. It fully supports
the `VersionedDatabase` API. The implementation is relatively straightforward and
easy to understand as it’s entirely SQL-based. However, benchmarks show that this
options is least performant, even for reads. This SS backend has a lot of promise,
but needs more benchmarking and potential SQL optimizations, like dedicated tables
for certain aspects of state, e.g. latest state, to be extremely performant.

## Benchmarks

Benchmarks for basic operations on all supported native SS implementations can
be found in `store/storage/storage_bench_test.go`.

At the time of writing, the following benchmarks were performed:

```shell
name                                              time/op
Get/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10             7.41µs ± 0%
Get/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10              6.17µs ± 0%
Get/backend_btree_sqlite-10                       29.1µs ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10   5.73ms ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_btree_sqlite-10            56.9ms ± 0%
ApplyChangeset/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10  4.07ms ± 0%
Iterate/backend_pebbledb_default_opts-10           1.04s ± 0%
Iterate/backend_btree_sqlite-10                    1.59s ± 0%
Iterate/backend_rocksdb_versiondb_opts-10          778ms ± 0%
```

## Pruning

Pruning is the process of efficiently managing and removing outdated or redundant 
data from the State Storage (SS). To facilitate this, the SS backend must implement 
the `Pruner` interface, allowing the `PruningManager` to execute data pruning operations 
according to the specified `PruningOption`.

## State Sync

State storage (SS) does not have a direct notion of state sync. Rather, `snapshots.Manager`
is responsible for creating and restoring snapshots of the entire state. The
`snapshots.Manager` has a `StorageSnapshotter` field which is fulfilled by the
`StorageStore` type, specifically it implements the `Restore` method. The `Restore`
method reads off of a provided channel and writes key/value pairs directly to a
batch object which is committed to the underlying SS engine.

## Non-Consensus Data

<!-- TODO -->

## Usage

An SS backend is meant to be used within a broader store implementation, as it
only stores data for direct and historical query purposes. We define a `Database`
interface in the `storage` package which is mean to be represent a `VersionedDatabase`
with only the necessary methods. The `StorageStore` interface is meant to wrap or
accept this `Database` type, e.g. RocksDB.

The `StorageStore` interface is an abstraction or wrapper around the backing SS
engine can be seen as the main entry point to using SS.

Higher up the stack, there should exist a `root.Store` implementation. The `root.Store`
is meant to encapsulate both an SS backend and an SC backend. The SS backend is
defined by this `StorageStore` implementation.

In short, initialize your SS engine of choice and then provide that to `NewStorageStore`
which will further be provided to `root.Store` as the SS backend.
