<!--
order: 12
-->

# Recommended Folder Structure

This document outlines the recommended structure of Cosmos SDK modules. These ideas are meant to be applied as suggestions. Application developers are encouraged to improve upon and contribute to module structure and development design. {synopsis}

## Structure

A typical Cosmos SDK module can be structured as follows:

```shell
x/{module_name}
├── client
│   ├── cli
│   │   ├── query.go
│   │   └── tx.go
│   ├── rest
│   │   ├── query.go
│   │   └── tx.go
│   └── testutil
│       ├── cli_test.go
│       └── suite.go
├── exported
│   └── exported.go
├── keeper
│   ├── genesis.go
│   ├── grpc_query.go
│   ├── hooks.go
│   ├── invariants.go
│   ├── keeper.go
│   ├── keys.go
│   ├── msg_server.go
│   └── querier.go
├── module
│   └── module.go
├── simulation
│   ├── decoder.go
│   ├── genesis.go
│   ├── operations.go
│   └── params.go
├── spec
│   ├── 01_concepts.md
│   ├── 02_state.md
│   ├── 03_messages.md
│   └── 04_events.md
├── {module_name}.pb.go
├── abci.go
├── codec.go
├── errors.go
├── events.go
├── events.pb.go
├── expected_keepers.go
├── genesis.go
├── genesis.pb.go
├── keys.go
├── msgs.go
├── params.go
├── querier.go
├── query.pb.go
└── tx.pb.go
```

- `client/`: The module's CLI and REST client functionality implementation and the module's integration testing suite.
- `exported/`: The module's exported types - typically interface types. If a module relies on keepers from another module, it is expected to receive the keepers as interface contracts through the `expected_keepers.go` file (see below) in order to avoid a direct dependency on the module implementing the keepers. However, these interface contracts can define methods that operate on and/or return types that are specific to the module that is implementing the keepers and this is where `exported/` comes into play. The interface types that are defined in `exported/` use canonical types, allowing for the module to receive the keepers as interface contracts through the `expected_keepers.go` file. This pattern allows for code to remain DRY and also alleviates import cycle chaos.
- `keeper/`: The module's `Keeper` and `MsgServer` implementation.
- `module/`: The module's `AppModule` and `AppModuleBasic` implementation.
- `simulation/`: The module's simulation package defines functions used by the blockchain simulator application (`simapp`): randomized genesis state, parameters, weighted operations, proposal contents and types decoders.
- `spec/`: The module's specification documents outlining important concepts, state storage structure, and message and event type definitions.
- The root directory includes type definitions for messages, events, and genesis state, including the type definitions generated by Protocol Buffers.
	- `abci.go`: The module's `BeginBlocker` and `EndBlocker` implementations (if any).
	- `codec.go`: The module's registry methods for interface types.
	- `errors.go`: The module's sentinel errors.
	- `events.go`: The module's event types and constructors.
	- `expected_keepers.go`: The module's [expected keeper](./keeper.html#type-definition) interfaces<!-- (also includes expected subspace interface, also includes expected event hook interfaces (gov and staking hooks), also includes expected properties for validator set and delegation set, also expected iterating genesis accounts object) -->.
	- `genesis.go`: The module's genesis state methods and helper functions.
	- `keys.go`: The module's store keys and helper functions<!-- (also includes other constants such as ModuleName and QuerierRoute)-->.
	- `msgs.go`: The module's message type definitions and instance methods.
	- `params.go`: The module's parameter type definitions and instance methods.
	- `querier.go`: The module's query type definitions and instance methods.

## Next {hide}

Learn about [Errors](./errors.md) {hide}
