Atlas Testnet Example
=====================

Atlas is a community testnet which can be used to test setting up a
cosmos validator node. In addition to this tutorial you can also
follow `this video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-shjoqvnnY>`__.

To work on the Atlas you will need some tokens to get started. To do
this first generate a new key:

::

    gaia keys new bob
    gaia keys list

This will output a bunch of information. Read it carefully, then enter
your key into `this utility <http://www.cosmosvalidators.com/>`__ with
your key address and it will send you some ``fermion`` testnet tokens :).
Fermions are the native staking token on the Atlas tesnet; see below for
information on checking your balance.

Now, to sync with the testnet, we need the genesis file and seeds. The
easiest way to get them is to clone and navigate to the tendermint
testnet repo:

::

    git clone https://github.com/tendermint/testnets ~/testnets
    cd ~/testnets/gaia-1/gaia

Now we can start a new node in the background; note that it may
take awhile to sync with the existing testnet.

::

    gaia node start --home=$HOME/testnets/gaia-1/gaia

Once blocks slow down to about one block per second, you're all caught up.

The ``gaia node start`` command will automaticaly generate a validator
private key found in ``~/testnets/gaia-1/gaia/priv_validator.json``.
Let's get the pubkey data for our validator node. The pubkey is located under
``"pub_key"{"data":`` within the json file

::

    cat ~/testnets/gaia-1/gaia/priv_validator.json 
    PUBKEY=<your newly generated address>  

If you have a json parser like ``jq``, you can get the pubkey like so:

::

    PUBKEY=$(cat $GAIANET/priv_validator.json | jq -r .pub_key.data)

Next let's initialize the gaia client to start interacting with the
testnet:

::

    gaia init --chain-id=atlas --node=tcp://localhost:46657

And check our balance:

::

    gaia query account $MYADDR

Where ``$MYADDR`` is the address originally generated by ``gaia keys new bob``.

We are now ready to bond some tokens:

::

    gaia tx bond --amount=5fermion --name=bob --pubkey=$PUBKEY

Bonding tokens means that your balance is tied up as *stake*. Don't
worry, you'll be able to get it back later. As soon as some tokens have
been bonded the validator node which we started earlier will have power
in the network and begin to participate in consensus!

We can now check the validator set and see that we are a part of the
club!

::

    gaia query validators

Finally lets unbond to get back our tokens

::

    gaia tx unbond --amount=5fermion --name=bob

Remember to unbond before stopping your node, otherwise ... ?
