This guide uses the roles functionality provided by ``basecli`` to
create a multi-sig wallet. It builds upon the basecoin basics and key
management guides. You should have ``basecoin`` started with blocks
streaming in, and three accounts: ``rich, poor, igor`` where ``rich``
was the account used on ``basecoin init``, *and* run ``basecli init``
with the appropriate flags. Review the intro guides for more
information.

In this example, ``rich`` will create the role and send it some coins
(i.e., fill the multi-sig wallet). Then, ``poor`` will prepare a
transaction to withdraw coins, which will be approved by ``igor``. Let's
look at our keys:

::

    basecli keys list

::

    All keys:
    igor        5E4CB7A4E729BA0A8B18DE99E21409B6D706D0F1
    poor        65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF
    rich        CB76F4092D1B13475272B36585EBD15D22A2848D

Using the ``basecli query account`` command, you'll see that ``rich``
has plenty of coins:

::

    {
      "height": 81,
      "data": {
        "coins": [
          {
            "denom": "mycoin",
            "amount": 9007199254740992
          }
        ],
        "credit": []
      }
    }

whereas ``poor`` and ``igor`` have no coins (in fact, the chain doesn't
know about them yet):

::

    ERROR: Account bytes are empty for address 65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF

Create Role
-----------

This first step defines the parameters of a new role, which will have
control of any coins sent to it, and only release them if correct
conditions are met. In this example, we are going to make a 2/3
multi-sig wallet. Let's look a the command and dissect it below:

::

    basecli tx create-role --role=10CAFE4E --min-sigs=2 --members=5E4CB7A4E729BA0A8B18DE99E21409B6D706D0F1,65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF,CB76F4092D1B13475272B36585EBD15D22A2848D --sequence=1 --name=rich

In the first part we are sending a transaction that creates a role,
rather than transfering coins. The ``--role`` flag is the name of the
role (in hex only). The ``--min-sigs`` and
``--members`` define your multi-sig parameters. Here, we require a
minimum of 2 signatures out of 3 members but we could easily say 3 of 5
or 9 of 10, or whatever your application requires. The ``--members``
flag requires a comma-seperated list of addresses that will be
signatories on the role. Then we set the ``--sequence`` number for the
transaction, which will start at 1 and must be incremented by 1 for
every transaction from an account. Finally, we use the name of the
key/account that will be used to create the role, in this case the
account ``rich``.

Remember that ``rich``'s address was used on ``basecoin init`` and is
included in the ``--members`` list. The command above will prompt for a
password (which can also be piped into the command if desired) then - if
executed correctly - return some data:

::

    {
      "check_tx": {
        "code": 0,
        "data": "",
        "log": ""
      },
      "deliver_tx": {
        "code": 0,
        "data": "",
        "log": ""
      },
      "hash": "4849DA762E19CE599460B9882DD42C7F19655DC1",
      "height": 321
    }

showing the block height at which the transaction was committed and its
hash. A quick review of what we did: 1) created a role, essentially an
account, that requires a minimum of two (2) signatures from three (3)
accounts (members). And since it was the account named ``rich``'s first
transaction, the sequence was set to 1.

Let's look at the balance of the role that we've created:

::

    basecli query account role:10CAFE4E

and it should be empty:

::

    ERROR: Account bytes are empty for address role:10CAFE4E

Next, we want to send coins *to* that role. Notice that because this is
the second transaction being sent by rich, we need to increase
``--sequence`` to ``2``:

::

    basecli tx send --fee=90mycoin --amount=10000mycoin --to=role:10CAFE4E --sequence=2 --name=rich

We need to pay a transaction fee to the validators, in this case 90
``mycoin`` to send 10000 ``mycoin`` Notice that for the ``--to`` flag,
to specify that we are sending to a role instead of an account, the
``role:`` prefix is added before the role. Because it's ``rich``'s
second transaction, we've incremented the sequence. The output will be
nearly identical to the output from ``create-role`` above.

Now the role has coins (think of it like a bank).

Double check with:

::

    basecli query account role:10CAFE4E

and this time you'll see the coins in the role's account:

::

    {
      "height": 2453,
      "data": {
        "coins": [
          {
            "denom": "mycoin",
            "amount": 10000
          }
        ],
        "credit": []
      }
    }

``Poor`` decides to initiate a multi-sig transaction to himself from the
role's account. First, it must be prepared like so:

::

    basecli tx send --amount=6000mycoin --from=role:10CAFE4E --to=65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF --sequence=1 --assume-role=10CAFE4E --name=poor --multi --prepare=tx.json

you'll be prompted for ``poor``'s password and there won't be any
``stdout`` to the terminal. Note that the address in the ``--to`` flag
matches the address of ``poor``'s account from the beginning of the
tutorial. The main output is the ``tx.json`` file that has just been
created. In the above command, the ``--assume-role`` flag is used to
evaluate account permissions on the transaction, while the ``--multi``
flag is used in combination with ``--prepare``, to specify the file that
is prepared for a multi-sig transaction.

The ``tx.json`` file will look like this:

::

    {
      "type": "sigs/multi",
      "data": {
        "tx": {
          "type": "chain/tx",
          "data": {
            "chain_id": "test_chain_id",
            "expires_at": 0,
            "tx": {
              "type": "nonce",
              "data": {
                "sequence": 1,
                "signers": [
                  {
                    "chain": "",
                    "app": "sigs",
                    "addr": "65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF"
                  }
                ],
                "tx": {
                  "type": "role/assume",
                  "data": {
                    "role": "10CAFE4E",
                    "tx": {
                      "type": "coin/send",
                      "data": {
                        "inputs": [
                          {
                            "address": {
                              "chain": "",
                              "app": "role",
                              "addr": "10CAFE4E"
                            },
                            "coins": [
                              {
                                "denom": "mycoin",
                                "amount": 6000
                              }
                            ]
                          }
                        ],
                        "outputs": [
                          {
                            "address": {
                              "chain": "",
                              "app": "sigs",
                              "addr": "65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF"
                            },
                            "coins": [
                              {
                                "denom": "mycoin",
                                "amount": 6000
                              }
                            ]
                          }
                        ]
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "signatures": [
          {
            "Sig": {
              "type": "ed25519",
              "data": "A38F73BF2D109015E4B0B6782C84875292D5FAA75F0E3362C9BD29B16CB15D57FDF0553205E7A33C740319397A434B7C31CBB10BE7F8270C9984C5567D2DC002"
            },
            "Pubkey": {
              "type": "ed25519",
              "data": "6ED38C7453148DD90DFC41D9339CE45BEFA5EB505FD7E93D85E71DFFDAFD9B8F"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }

and it is loaded by the next command.

With the transaction prepared, but not sent, we'll have ``igor`` sign
and send the prepared transaction:

::

    basecli tx --in=tx.json --name=igor

which will give output similar to:

::

    {
      "check_tx": {
        "code": 0,
        "data": "",
        "log": ""
      },
      "deliver_tx": {
        "code": 0,
        "data": "",
        "log": ""
      },
      "hash": "E345BDDED9517EB2CAAF5E30AFF3AB38A1172833",
      "height": 2673
    }

and voila! That's the basics for creating roles and sending multi-sig
transactions. For 3 of 3, you'd add an intermediate transactions like:

::

    basecli tx --in=tx.json --name=igor --prepare=tx2.json

before having rich sign and send the transaction. The ``--prepare`` flag
writes files to disk rather than sending the transaction and can be used
to chain together multiple transactions.

We can check the balance of the role:

::

    basecli query account role:10CAFE4E

and get the result:

::

    {
      "height": 2683,
      "data": {
        "coins": [
          {
            "denom": "mycoin",
            "amount": 4000
          }
        ],
        "credit": []
      }
    }

and see that ``poor`` now has 6000 ``mycoin``:

::

    basecli query account 65D406E028319289A0706E294F3B764F44EBA3CF

to confirm that everything worked as expected.
