Atlas Testnet
=============

Atlas is a community testnet which can be used to test setting up a
cosmos validator node. In addition to this tutorial you can also
follow `this video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-shjoqvnnY>`__.

Get Tokens
----------

To work on the Atlas you'll need some tokens to get started. To do
this first generate a new key:

::

    gaia client keys new bob
    gaia client keys list

This will output a bunch of information. Read it carefully, then enter
your key into `this utility <http://www.cosmosvalidators.com/>`__ with
your key address and it will send you some ``fermion`` testnet tokens.

Get Files
---------

Now, to sync with the testnet, we need the genesis file and seeds. The
easiest way to get them is to clone and navigate to the tendermint
testnet repo:

::

    git clone https://github.com/tendermint/testnets ~/testnets
    cd ~/testnets/gaia-1/gaia


Start Node
----------

Now we can start a new node in the background; note that it may
take awhile to sync with the existing testnet.

::

    gaia node start --home=$HOME/testnets/gaia-1/gaia

Once blocks slow down to about one per second, you're all caught up.

The ``gaia node start`` command will automaticaly generate a validator
private key found in ``~/testnets/gaia-1/gaia/priv_validator.json``.

Finally, let's initialize the gaia client to interact with the testnet:

::

    gaia client init --chain-id=atlas --node=tcp://localhost:46657

and check our balance:

::

    gaia client query account $MYADDR

Where ``$MYADDR`` is the address originally generated by ``gaia keys new bob``.

You are now ready to declare candidacy or delegate some fermions. See the
`staking module overview <./staking-module.html>`__ for more information
on using the ``gaia client``.
