# Gaia CLI

`gaiacli` is the command line interface to manage accounts and transactions on Cosmos testnets. Here is a list of useful `gaiacli` commands, including usage examples.

## Key Types

There are three types of key representations that are used:

- `cosmosaccaddr`
  * Derived from account keys generated by `gaiacli keys add`
  * Used to receive funds
  * e.g. `cosmosaccaddr15h6vd5f0wqps26zjlwrc6chah08ryu4hzzdwhc`

- `cosmosaccpub`
  * Derived from account keys generated by `gaiacli keys add`
  * e.g. `cosmosaccpub1zcjduc3q7fu03jnlu2xpl75s2nkt7krm6grh4cc5aqth73v0zwmea25wj2hsqhlqzm`

- `cosmosvalpub`
  * Generated when the node is created with `gaiad init`.
  * Get this value with `gaiad tendermint show_validator`
  * e.g. `cosmosvalpub1zcjduc3qcyj09qc03elte23zwshdx92jm6ce88fgc90rtqhjx8v0608qh5ssp0w94c`

## Generate Keys

You'll need an account private and public key pair \(a.k.a. `sk, pk` respectively\) to be able to receive funds, send txs, bond tx, etc.

To generate a new key \(default _ed25519_ elliptic curve\):

```bash
gaiacli keys add <account_name>
```

Next, you will have to create a passphrase to protect the key on disk. The output of the above command will contain a _seed phrase_. Save the _seed phrase_ in a safe place in case you forget the password!

If you check your private keys, you'll now see `<account_name>`:

```bash
gaiacli keys show <account_name>
```

You can see all your available keys by typing:

```bash
gaiacli keys list
```

View the validator pubkey for your node by typing:

```bash
gaiad tendermint show_validator
```

::: danger Warning
We strongly recommend *NOT* using the same passphrase for multiple keys. The Tendermint team and the Interchain Foundation will not be responsible for the loss of funds.
:::

## Get Tokens

The best way to get tokens is from the [Cosmos Testnet Faucet](https://faucetcosmos.network). If the faucet is not working for you, try asking [#cosmos-validators](https://riot.im/app/#/room/#cosmos-validators:matrix.org). The faucet needs the `cosmosaccaddr` from the account you wish to use for staking.

After receiving tokens to your address, you can view your account's balance by typing:

```bash
gaiacli account <account_cosmosaccaddr>
```

::: warning Note
When you query an account balance with zero tokens, you will get this error: `No account with address <account_cosmosaccaddr> was found in the state.` This can also happen if you fund the account before your node has fully synced with the chain. These are both normal.

We're working on improving our error messages!
:::

## Send Tokens

```bash
gaiacli send \
  --amount=10faucetToken \
  --chain-id=gaia-6002 \
  --name=<key_name> \
  --to=<destination_cosmosaccaddr>
```

::: warning Note
The `--amount` flag accepts the format `--amount=<value|coin_name>`.
:::

Now, view the updated balances of the origin and destination accounts:

```bash
gaiacli account <account_cosmosaccaddr>
gaiacli account <destination_cosmosaccaddr>
```

You can also check your balance at a given block by using the `--block` flag:

```bash
gaiacli account <account_cosmosaccaddr> --block=<block_height>
```

## Delegate

On the upcoming mainnet, you can delegate `atom` to a validator. These [delegators](/resources/delegators-faq) can receive part of the validator's fee revenue. Read more about the [Cosmos Token Model](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos/raw/master/Cosmos_Token_Model.pdf).

### Bond Tokens

On the testnet, we delegate `steak` instead of `atom`. Here's how you can bond tokens to a testnet validator:

```bash
gaiacli stake delegate \
  --amount=10steak \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=$(gaiad tendermint show_validator) \
  --name=<key_name> \
  --chain-id=gaia-6002
```

While tokens are bonded, they are pooled with all the other bonded tokens in the network. Validators and delegators obtain a percentage of shares that equal their stake in this pool.

::: tip Note
 Don't use more `steak` thank you have! You can always get more by using the [Faucet](https://faucetcosmos.network/)!
:::

### Unbond Tokens

If for any reason the validator misbehaves, or you want to unbond a certain amount of tokens, use this following command. You can unbond a specific amount of`shares`\(eg:`12.1`\) or all of them \(`MAX`\).

```bash
gaiacli stake unbond \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=$(gaiad tendermint show_validator) \
  --shares=MAX \
  --name=<key_name> \
  --chain-id=gaia-6002
```

You can check your balance and your stake delegation to see that the unbonding went through successfully.

```bash
gaiacli account <account_cosmosaccaddr>

gaiacli stake delegation \
  --address-delegator=<account_cosmosaccaddr> \
  --address-validator=$(gaiad tendermint show_validator) \
  --chain-id=gaia-6002
```
